So Web Components, right?
It's easy as HTML.
Great reusability, right?
We can just copy some tags and
paste them into another site.
We can get better experiences, right?
Well, I can't build a 3D experience but
I can with Web Components,
I don't want to build that slider thing,
but I can with Web Components.
Progressively enhanced, I think we showed
a couple of times where if the JavaScript
for whatever reason fails,
and I'm not a JavaScript.
People turn off JavaScript although
like 1% of people turn off JavaScript.
I have one friend that turns off
JavaScript, his name is James.
So, [LAUGH] James turns off JavaScript,
but most people don't turn off JavaScript.
JavaScript does a great
job turning itself off.
So if one problem happens, boom,
it just says, I'm just not gonna work.
So and that's okay.
So progressive enhancement.
It's not always a requirement for
me but it can save your bacon.
It can let a form submit
if you do it right.
No build tools were harmed in the,
[LAUGH] production of
this section of the talk.
We didn't open the CLI,
we just copy pasted HTML
from third party sources.
So you can of course, get into build
tools, bring things locally, but
we kinda did none of that.
And it's encapsulated.
The styles in my 3D world didn't
bleed out to the rest of the page.
I don't think they did.
But the styles I'm writing or
the sort of like the button styles and
stuff like that for the two up,
they didn't bleed out into the rest of
the page, it's all encapsulated together.
So that way you have a little bit
security to know if you change something,
the barstool and
the other bars ain't gonna fall over.
Okay, on that note, we'll do some Q&A, or
take just like a two minute break,
let's go here.
>> So you had mentioned about
that CSS not bleeding out but
you also mentioned overriding
styles within these Web Components.
So can you speak to how that works out
if you did wanna write something that in
a Web Component?
>> Yeah, so there are a few ways and
we'll talk about it and
then like next big section
like right after lunch, but
the kind of core ways to provide
styling are, you control the light DOM.
So anything that you send in there,
I don't know,
I could have done like hue rotation,
CSS on those images I passed into
the two-up cuz I control that stuff.
I wrote that light down.
There's also this thing called inheritable
styles, I can talk about that later,
but it's some styles do sort of
filter through but some don't.
And so some Web Components like two-up
offer these like CSS variables,
cuz that's one of the things
that do go through.
And so variables are kinda one way
component authors offer styling in
customization.
Does that help?
>> Yeah, like anecdotally or in your
experience on the topic of build tools do
you see and encounter people, I'm guessing
transpiring down to you, so it doesn't
happen much because the browser age that
is needed for Components themselves.
But in minification typically just like,
hey, I use headers to Jessup.
What do you see people using for
kind of at scale apps or
sites that use Web Components?
>> Yeah.
So there's a little bit of data out there,
that minification is great, but
Brotli compression is maybe just fine.
And then there can be the side
effect of minification
where you uglify script A and script B and
they're both trying to call function C,
and
boom, [LAUGH] a problem occurs.
Is that what the browser says?
[LAUGH] It messes up.
And so I think at scale people
are doing the bundling and minifying,
but in Web Component land and
this takes a bit of reprogramming,
that's all a production level concern.
So it's not the development environment,
that's a production problem.
Like the bundling minification asset, sort
of splitting, tree shaking, all of that.
That's a production thing.
And in what's nice, good and
bad about that, it's bring your own, so
we don't like that, [LAUGH].
As developers, for me personally,
I might have to code that,
[LAUGH] that's not what I wanted.
But what is also good about it is you
aren't locked into like webpack 4.
The project I work on, we are locked into
a webpack until a big sea change of other
cascading changes happens to enable like
switching to ESBL or something like that.